

Verifiable Credentials Implementation Guidelines
1.0

Verifiable Credentials
Implementation Guidelines 1.0

Implementation guidance for
Verifiable Credentials

W3C Working Group Note 24 September 2019

This version:

https://www.w3.org/TR/2019/NOTE-vc-imp-guide-20190924/

Latest published version:

https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-imp-guide/

Latest editor's draft:

https://w3c.github.io/vc-imp-guide/

Editor:

Andrei Sambra

Authors:

David
Chadwick (University of Kent)

Dave Longley (Digital Bazaar)

Manu Sporny (Digital Bazaar)

Oliver Terbu
(Consensys)

Dmitri Zagidulin
(Digital Bazaar)

Brent Zundel
(Evernym)

Participate:

GitHub
w3c/vc-imp-guide

File
a bug

Commit
history

Pull
requests

Copyright
© 2019 W3C®
(MIT,
ERCIM,
Keio, Beihang). W3C
liability,
trademark and
permissive document license rules apply.

Abstract

This document provides implementation guidance for
Verifiable Credentials.

Status of This Document

This section describes the status of this document at
the time of its publication. Other documents may supersede this
document. A list of current W3C publications and the
latest revision of this technical report can be found in the
W3C technical reports
index at https://www.w3.org/TR/.

Future versions of this document will be updated and
maintained by the Credentials
Community Group. Please consult that group for the most up
to date version of this document.

The work on this document was carried out under tight time
constraints due to limitations of the W3C process and publishing
deadlines. Under such conditions, errors are unavoidable and
some of the ideas presented here are incomplete. The Working
Group hopes that in the future, W3C process can be revised
to better support the dynamic nature of standards work in a
more consistent way across different groups.

Comments regarding this document are welcome. Please file
issues directly on GitHub, or
send them to public-vc-comments@w3.org
(subscribe,
archives).

This document was published by the Verifiable Claims Working
Group as a Working Group Note.

GitHub
Issues are preferred for discussion of this specification.
Alternatively, you can send comments to our mailing list.
Please send them to public-vc-comments@w3.org
(archives).

Publication as a Working Group Note does not imply
endorsement by the W3C Membership. This is a
draft document and may be updated, replaced or obsoleted by
other documents at any time. It is inappropriate to cite this
document as other than work in progress.

This document was produced by a group
operating under the W3C Patent Policy.

This document is governed by the 1 March 2019
W3C Process
Document.

Table of
Contents

1. Introduction

2. Identifiers

3. Terminology

4. Verification

4.1 Core Data Model

4.2 Specific Verifiable Credentials

4.3
Content Integrity

4.3.1 Hashlinks

4.3.2 Verifiable Data Registries

5. Referencing Other Credentials

5.1 Referencing Credentials
Without Integrity Protection

5.2 Referencing Credentials With Integrity
Protection

5.3
Attaching Evidence

6. Disputes

7. Presentations

8.
Using the JWT aud claim

9. Extensions

9.1 Creating New Credential Types

9.2 Extending JWTs

9.3 Human
Readability

10. Proof Formats

10.1 Benefits of JWTs

10.2 Benefits of JSON-LD and
LD-Proofs

11.
Zero-Knowledge Proofs

12. Progressive Trust

12.1 Data
Minimization

12.2
Selective Disclosure

12.3 Predicates

12.4
Further Techniques

13.
Related Specifications

13.1 Web
Authentication

14. Test suite

A. References

A.1
Informative references

1.
Introduction
This section is
non-normative.

This guide provides some examples and resources for
implementing protocols which make use of verifiable credentials, beyond those
available in the core specification.

It may be useful to first familiarize yourself with the
official Use Cases
document, which offers a concise collection of examples of
Verifiable Credentials as they may
appear in everyday life, and how they may be used.

The data
model specification contains the technical details about
verifiable credentials. However, the
data model specification does not specify any
protocols for using verifiable credentials, nor any
proof formats or additional identifiers upon
which such protocols may depend.

2.
Identifiers
This section is non-normative.

When expressing statements about a specific entity, such as
a person, product, or organization, it is often useful to have
an identifier for it so that others can express statements
about the same thing. The verifiable
credentials data model
specification contains numerous examples where the
identifier is a decentralized
identifier, also known as a DID. An example of a DID is
did:example:123456abcdef.

There is currently a proposed charter for a W3C Decentralized
Identifier Working Group, which will put DIDs on track to
become a W3C
standard.

Note

As of the publication of the verifiable credentials data model
specification, DIDs are not necessary for verifiable credentials to be useful.
Specifically, verifiable credentials
do not depend on DIDs and
DIDs do not depend on verifiable credentials. However, it
is expected that many verifiable
credentials will use DIDs and that software libraries
implementing the data model
specification will benefit from knowing how to resolve
DIDs. DID-based URLs may be used to
express identifiers associated with subjects,
issuers, holders, credential status lists,
cryptographic keys, and other machine-readable information
associated with a verifiable
credential.

3.
Terminology

This section is non-normative.

The following terms are used to describe concepts in this
specification.

claim

An assertion made about a subject.

credential

A set of one or more claims made by an
issuer. A verifiable credential is a tamper-evident
credential that has authorship that can be
cryptographically verified. Verifiable credentials can be
used to build verifiable
presentations, which can also be cryptographically
verified. The claims in a credential can be
about different subjects.

data minimization

The act of limiting the amount of shared data strictly
to the minimum necessary to successfully accomplish a task
or goal.

decentralized identifier

A portable URL-based identifier, also known as a
DID, associated with an
entity. These identifiers are
most often used in a verifiable credential and are
associated with subjects such that
a verifiable
credential itself can be easily ported from one
repository to another without
the need to reissue the credential. An
example of a DID is
did:example:123456abcdef.

decentralized identifier document

Also referred to as a DID
document, this is a document that is
accessible using a verifiable data registry and
contains information related to a specific decentralized identifier, such
as the associated repository
and public key information.

derived
predicate

A verifiable, boolean assertion about the value of
another attribute in a verifiable credential. These are
useful in zero-knowledge-proof-style verifiable presentations because
they can limit information disclosure. For example, if a
verifiable credential contains
an attribute for expressing a specific height in
centimeters, a derived predicate might reference the
height attribute in the verifiable credential
demonstrating that the issuer attests to
a height value meeting the minimum height requirement,
without actually disclosing the specific height value.
For example, the subject is taller
than 150 centimeters.

digital signature

A mathematical scheme for demonstrating the
authenticity of a digital message.

entity

A thing with distinct and independent existence, such
as a person, organization, or device that performs one or
more roles in the ecosystem.

graph

A network of information composed of subjects and their relationship to other
subjects or data.

hashlink

Hashlink URLs can be used to provide content integrity
for links to external resources.

holder

A role an entity might perform by
possessing one or more verifiable credentials and
generating presentations from
them. A holder is usually, but not always, a subject of the verifiable credentials they are
holding. Holders store their credentials
in credential
repositories.

identity

The means for keeping track of entities
across contexts. Digital identities enable tracking and
customization of entity
interactions across digital contexts, typically using
identifiers and attributes. Unintended distribution or
use of identity information can compromise privacy.
Collection and use of such information should follow the
principle of data minimization.

identity
provider

An identity provider, sometimes abbreviated as
IdP, is a system for creating, maintaining, and
managing identity information for holders,
while providing authentication services to relying party
applications within a federation or distributed network.
In this case the holder is always
the subject. Even if the verifiable credentials are
bearer credentials, it is assumed the
verifiable credentials remain
with the subject, and if they are not,
they were stolen by an attacker. This specification does
not use this term unless comparing or mapping the
concepts in this document to other specifications. This
specification decouples the identity provider concept into
two distinct concepts: the issuer and the
holder.

issuer

A role an entity can perform by asserting
claims about one or more subjects, creating a verifiable credential from these
claims, and transmitting the verifiable credential to a
holder.

presentation

Data derived from one or more verifiable credentials, issued
by one or more issuers, that is shared with a
specific verifier. A verifiable presentation is a tamper-evident
presentation encoded in such a way that authorship of the
data can be trusted after a process of cryptographic
verification. Certain types of verifiable presentations
might contain data that is synthesized from, but do not
contain, the original verifiable credentials (for
example, zero-knowledge proofs).

repository

A program, such as a storage vault or personal verifiable credential wallet,
that stores and protects access to holders'
verifiable credentials.

selective disclosure

The ability of a holder to make
fine-grained decisions about what information to share.

subject

A thing about which claims are made.

user
agent

A program, such as a browser or other Web client, that
mediates the communication between holders,
issuers, and verifiers.

validation

The assurance that a verifiable credential or a
verifiable
presentation meets the needs of a verifier and other dependent stakeholders. This
specification is constrained to verifying
verifiable credentials and
verifiable
presentations regardless of their usage. Validating
verifiable credentials or
verifiable
presentations is outside the scope of this
specification.

verifiable data registry

A role a system might perform by mediating the creation
and verification of identifiers,
keys, and other relevant data, such as verifiable credential schemas,
revocation registries, issuer public keys, and so on,
which might be required to use verifiable credentials. Some
configurations might require correlatable identifiers for
subjects. Some registries, such
as ones for UUIDs and public keys, might just act as
namespaces for identifiers.

verification

The evaluation of whether a verifiable credential or
verifiable
presentation is an authentic and timely statement of
the issuer or presenter, respectively. This includes
checking that: the credential (or presentation) conforms
to the specification; the proof method is satisfied; and,
if present, the status is successfully checked.

verifier

The entity verifying a claim about a
given subject.

URI

A Uniform Resource Identifier, as defined by
[RFC3986].

4.
Verification
This section is
non-normative.

Verification is the process a verifier or
holder performs when presented with a verifiable presentation or verifiable credential. Verification includes checking the presented item
against the core
data model, and may also include validating the provided
proof section and checking the item's status.

4.1
Core Data Model

Conformant tooling that processes Verifiable Credentials
will ensure that the core data model is verified when
processing credentials.

4.2 Specific Verifiable Credentials

There are many data verification languages, the following
approach is one that should work for most use cases.

4.3
Content Integrity

Protecting the integrity of content is an important
component of verification. Verifiers need to have
confidence that the content they rely on to verify credentials doesn't change without their knowledge.
This content may include data schemas, identifiers, public
keys, etc.

There are a number of ways to provide content integrity
protection. A few of these are described in greater detail
below.

4.3.1
Hashlinks

Hashlink
URLs can be used to provide content integrity for links
to external resources.

4.3.2 Verifiable Data Registries

A verifiable data
registry can also provide content integrity protection.
One example of a verifiable data
registry which provides content integrity protection is
a distributed ledger. This is a shared transaction record
which provides mechanisms for verifying the content it
stores. These mechanisms include consensus protocols,
digital signatures, and verifiable data structures such as
Merkle trees. These mechanisms provide cryptographic
assurances that the content retrieved from the ledger has
not been altered, and is complete.

5. Referencing Other Credentials

Usage of verifiable credentials
will often require referencing other credentials, embedding or
attaching multiple credentials, or otherwise binding them
together.

5.1 Referencing Credentials Without
Integrity Protection

The simplest way for a credential to
reference another external credential is to link to it,
either directly by using its URI, or indirectly by providing
a well-known ID (for example, a credential modeling an
internal company Invoice may refer to its parent Purchase
Order credential simply by the PO Number, relevant only
within the context of this specific enterprise).

This method of linking to an external credential without
using an integrity protection mechanism may be acceptable in
some use cases, such as when both credentials are issued by
the same entity, the verifier has a high level of trust and
confidence in the issuer's security and auditing mechanisms,
and the risk to the verifier is sufficiently low. However,
implementers should keep in mind that although the credential
that contains the reference may be integrity protected itself
(by a cryptographic signature or a similar proof mechanism),
the verifier has no way of knowing that the external
credential being linked to has not been tampered with, unless
the link itself has a content integrity protection mechanism
built into it.

5.2 Referencing Credentials With
Integrity Protection

The recommended way of referencing an external credential
from within a verifiable credential
is to use a linking mechanism that cryptographically binds
the contents of the target document to the URI itself. One
way to accomplish this would be to use hashlinks or an equivalent URI scheme. Another
mechanism would be to encode the full contents of the target
credential in the URI itself, although this is much less
commonly used, and the discussion of the practical limits of
URI length are outside the scope of this document.

5.3
Attaching Evidence

Issuers wishing to attach additional supporting
information to a verifiable credential
are encouraged to use the evidence
property. Note that this can be done either by embedding the
relevant evidence information in the credential itself, or by
referencing it (with or without an integrity protection
mechanism, as previously discussed).

6.
Disputes

There are at least two different cases to consider where an
entity wants to dispute a credential issued
by an issuer:

A subject disputes a claim made by the
issuer. For example, the address
property is incorrect or out of date.

An entity disputes a potentially false
claim made by the issuer about a different subject. For example, an imposter has claimed the
social security number for an entity.

The mechanism for issuing a DisputeCredential
is the same as for a regular credential, except that
the credentialSubject identifier in the
DisputeCredential property is the identifier of
the disputed credential.

For example, if a credential with an
identifier of https://example.org/credentials/245
is disputed, an entity can issue one of the credentials shown below. In the first example, the
subject might present this to the verifier along with the disputed credential. In the second example, the entity might publish the
DisputeCredential in a public venue to make it
known that the credential is disputed.

Example
1: A subject
disputes a credential

{
"@context": [
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
],
"id": "http://example.com/credentials/123",
"type": ["VerifiableCredential", "DisputeCredential"],
"credentialSubject": {
"id": "http://example.com/credentials/245",
"currentStatus": "Disputed",
"statusReason": {
"@value": "Address is out of date",
"@language": "en"
},
},
"issuer": "https://example.com/people#me",
"issuanceDate": "2017-12-05T14:27:42Z",
"proof": { ... }
}

Example
2: Another
entity disputes a credential

{
"@context": "https://w3id.org/credentials/v1",
"id": "http://example.com/credentials/321",
"type": ["VerifiableCredential", "DisputeCredential"],
"credentialSubject": {
"id": "http://example.com/credentials/245",
"currentStatus": "Disputed",
"statusReason": {
"@value": "Credential contains disputed statements",
"@language": "en"
},
"disputedClaim": {
"id": "did:example:ebfeb1f712ebc6f1c276e12ec21",
"address": "Is Wrong"
}
},
"issuer": "https://example.com/people#me",
"issuanceDate": "2017-12-05T14:27:42Z",
"proof": { ... }
}

In the above verifiable credential,
the issuer is claiming that the address in the disputed
verifiable credential is wrong. For
example, the subject might wrongly be claiming to
have the same address as that of the issuer.

Note

If a credential does not
have an identifier, a content-addressed identifier can be
used to identify the disputed credential.
Similarly, content-addressed identifiers can be used to
uniquely identify individual claims.

7.
Presentations

Verifiable credentials may be
presented to a verifier by using a verifiable presentation. A verifiable presentation can be
targeted to a specific verifier by using a
Linked Data Proof that includes a domain and
challenge. This also helps prevent a verifier from reusing a verifiable presentation as their
own.

The domain value can be any string or URI, and
the challenge should be a randomly generated
string.

The following sample verifiable
presentation is for authenticating to a website,
https://example.com.

Example
3: A targeted
verifiable presentation

{
"@context": [
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1"
],
"type": "VerifiablePresentation,
"verifiableCredential": { ... },
"proof": {
"type": "Ed25519Signature2018",
"created": "2019-08-13T15:09:00Z",
"challenge": "d1b23d3...3d23d32d2",
"domain": "https://example.com",
"jws": "eyJhbGciOiJFZERTQSIsImI2NCI6ZmFsc2UsImNyaXQiOlsiYjY0Il19..uyW7Hv
VOZ8QCpLJ63wHode0OdgWjsHfJ0O8d8Kfs55dMVEg3C1Z0bYUGV49s8IlTbi3eXsNvM63n
vah79E-lAg",
"proofPurpose": "authentication"
}
}

8.
Using the JWT aud claim

The JWT aud claim name refers to
(i.e., identifies) the intended audience of the verifiable presentation (i.e., the
verifier(s)). Consequently this is an alternative to
the Linked Data Proof method specified above. It lets the
holder indicate which verifier(s) it allows to
verify the verifiable presentation.
Any JWT-compliant verifier that is not identified in the
aud is required to reject the JWT (see RFC 7519).

RFC 7519
defines aud as "an array of case-sensitive
strings, each containing a StringOrURI value". For
use in a verifiable presentation,
we strongly suggest that this be restricted to a single URI
value, equal to the URI of the intended verifier.

The data
model specification provides no guidance of how to
transform this JWT claim into a property of the verifiable presentation, nor vice
versa. We strongly suggest that the aud JWT
claim be mapped to the verifier property
of the verifiable
presentation.

Example 4: An
example of a targeted verifiable presentation using the
verifier property

{
"@context": [
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
"https://www.w3.org/2019/credentials/v1.1"
],
"type": "VerifiablePresentation",
"verifiableCredential": [" ... "],
"holder": "did:example:ebfeb1f712ebc6f1c276e12ec21",
"verifier": "https://some.verifier.com"
}

Example 5: An
example JWT for a targeted verifiable presentation using
the JWT aud claim

{
"iss": "did:example:ebfeb1f712ebc6f1c276e12ec21",
"jti": "urn:uuid:3978344f-8596-4c3a-a978-8fcaba3903c5",
"aud": "https://some.verifier.com",
"nbf": 1541493724,
"iat": 1541493724,
"exp": 1573029723,
"nonce": "343s$FSFDa-",
"vp": {
"@context": [
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credImpGuide/v1"
],
"type": "VerifiablePresentation",
"verifiableCredential": [" ... "]
}
}

9.
Extensions
This section is non-normative.

The Verifiable Credentials Data Model is designed around an
open world assumption, meaning that any entity can say
anything about another entity. This approach enables
permissionless innovation; there is no centralized registry or
authority through which an extension author must register
themselves nor the specific data models and vocabularies they
create.

Instead, credential data model authors are expected to use
machine-readable vocabularies through the use of [LINKED-DATA].
This implementation guide provides examples for how to express
data models using a data format that is popular with software
developers and web page authors called [JSON-LD]. This data
format provides features that enable authors to express their
data models in idiomatic JSON while also ensuring that their
vocabulary terms are unambigiously understood, even by software
that does not implement JSON-LD processing.

The Verifiable Credentials data model also uses a
graph-based data model, which allows authors to model both
simple relationships that describe one or more attributes for a
single entity and complex multi-entity relationships.

The rest of this section describes how to author extensions
that build on the Verifiable Credentials Data Model.

9.1 Creating New Credential Types

We expect the most common extensions to the Verifiable
Credentials Data Model to be new credential types. Whenever
someone has something to say about one or more entities and
they want their authorship to be verifiable, they should use
a Verifiable Credential. Sometimes there may be an existing
credential type, that someone else has created, that can be
reused to make the statements they want to make. However,
there are often cases where new credential types are
needed.

New credential types can be created by following a few
steps. This guide will also walk you through creating an
example new credential type. At a high level, the steps to
follow are:

Design the data model.

Create a new JSON-LD context.

Select a publishing location.

Use the new JSON-LD context when issuing new
credentials.

So, let's walk through creating a new credential type
which we will call ExampleAddressCredential. The
purpose of this credential will be to express a person's
postal address.

Design the data model

First, we must design a data model for our new credential
type. We know that we will need to be able to express the
basics of a postal address, things like a person's city,
state, and zipcode. Of course, those items are quite US
centric, so we should consider internationalizing those
terms. But before we go further, since we're using
[LINKED-DATA] vocabularies, there is a good chance that
commonly known concepts may already have a vocabulary that
someone else has created that we can leverage.

If we are going to use someone else's vocabulary, we will
want to make sure it is stable and unlikely to change in any
significant way. There may even be technologies that we can
make use of that store immutable vocabularies that we can
reference, but those are not the focus of this example. Here
we will rely on the inertia that comes from a very popularly
used vocabulary on the Web, schema.org. It turns out that
this vocabulary has just what we need; it has already modeled
a postal address and even has examples for how to express it
using JSON-LD.

Please note that schema.org is developed incrementally,
meaning that the definition of a term today may differ from a
future definition, or even be removed. Although schema.org
developers encourage using the latest release, as in the
simple non-versioned schema.org URLs such as
http://schema.org/Place in structured data
applications, there are times in which more precise
versioning is important. Schema.org also provides dated
snapshots of each release, including both human and machine
readable definitions of the schema.org core vocabulary. These
are linked from the releases page.
For instance, instead of the unversioned URI
http://schema.org/Place, you might use the
versioned URI
https://schema.org/version/3.9/schema-all.html#term_Place.
In addition, the schemaVersion property has been
defined to provide a way for documents to indicate the
specific intended version of schema.org's definitions.

Using the schema.org vocabulary and JSON-LD we can express
a person's address like so:

Example
6: Example
schema.org address

{

"@context": [
"http://schema.org"
],
"type": "Person",
"address": {
"type": "PostalAddress",
"streetAddress": "123 Main St."
"addressLocality": "Blacksburg",
"addressRegion": "VA",
"postalCode": "24060",
"addressCountry": "US"
}
}

Note the above @context key in the JSON. This
@context refers to a machine-readable file (also
expressed in JSON) that provides term definitions [JSON-LD].
A term definition maps a key or type used in the JSON, such
as address or PostalAddress, to a
globally unique identifier: a URL.

This ensures that when software sees the
@context http://schema.org, that it
will interpret the the keys and types in the JSON in a
globally consistent way, without requiring developers to use
full URLs in the JSON or in the code that may traverse it. As
long as the software is aware of the specific
@context used (or if it uses JSON-LD processing
to transform it to some other known @context),
then it will understand the context in which the
JSON was written and meant to be understood. The use of
@context also allows [JSON-LD] keywords such as
@type to be aliased to the simpler
type as is done in the above example.

Note that we could also express the JSON using full URLs,
if we want to avoid using @context. Here is what the
example would look like if we did that:

Example
7: Example
schema.org address with full URLs

{
"@type": "http://schema.org/Person",
"http://schema.org/address": {
"@type": "http://schema.org/PostalAddress",
"http://schema.org/streetAddress": "123 Main St."
"http://schema.org/addressLocality": "Blacksburg",
"http://schema.org/addressRegion": "VA",
"http://schema.org/postalCode": "24060",
"http://schema.org/addressCountry": "US"
}
}

While this form is an acceptable way to express the
information such that it is unambiguous, many software
developers would prefer to use more idiomatic JSON. The use
of @context enables idiomatic JSON without
losing global consistency and without the need for a
centralized registry or authority for creating extensions.
Note that @context can also have more than one
value. In this case, a JSON array is used to express multiple
values, where each value references another context that
defines terms. Using this mechanism we can first bring in the
terms defined in the Verifiable Credentials Data Model
specification and then bring in the terms defined by
schema.org:

Example 8:
Example address credential with schema.org context

{

"@context": [
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
"http://schema.org"
],
...
"credentialSubject": {
"type": "Person",
"address": {
"type": "PostalAddress",
"streetAddress": "123 Main St."
"addressLocality": "Blacksburg",
"addressRegion": "VA",
"postalCode": "24060",
"addressCountry": "US"
}
},
...
}

Note, however, that each context might have a
different definition for the same term, e.g., the JSON key
address might map to a different URL in each
context. By default, [JSON-LD] allows terms in a
@context to be redefined using a last term
wins order. While these changes can be safely dealt with
by using JSON-LD processing, we want to lower the burden on
consumers of Verifiable Credentials. We want consumer
software to be able to make assumptions about the meaning of
terms by only having to read and understand the string value
associated with the @context key. We don't want
them to have to worry about terms being redefined in
unexpected ways. That way their software can inspect only the
@context values and then be hard coded to
understand the meaning of the terms.

In order to prevent term redefinition, the [JSON-LD]
@protected feature must be applied to term
definitions in the @context. All terms in the
core Verifiable Credentials @context are already
protected in this way. The only time that an existing term is
allowed to be redefined is if the new definition is scoped
underneath another new term that is defined in a
context. This matches developer expectations and
ensures that consumer software has strong guarantees about
the semantics of the data it is processing; it can be written
such that it is never confused about the definition of a
term. Note that consumers must determine their own risk
profile for how to handle any credentials their software
processes that include terms that it does not understand.

Create a new JSON-LD
context

Given the above, there is at least one reason why we don't
want to use the schema.org context: it is designed
to be very flexible and thus does not use the
@protected feature. There are a few additional
reasons we want to create our own [JSON-LD] context though.
First, the schema.org context does not define our new
credential type: ExampleAddressCredential. Second,
it is not served via a secure protocol (e.g.,
https); rather, it uses http. Note that
this is less of a concern than it may seem, as it is
recommended that all Verifiable Credential consumer software
hard code the @context values it understands and
not reach out to the Web to fetch them. Lastly, it is a very
large context, containing many more term definitions than are
necessary for our purposes.

So, we will create our own [JSON-LD] context that
expresses just those term definitions that we need for our
new credential type. Note that this does not mean that we
must mint new URLs; we can still reuse the schema.org
vocabulary terms. All we are doing is creating a more concise
and targeted context. Here's what we'll need in our
context:

Example
9: Example
address credential context

{
"@version": 1.1,
"@protected": true,

"ExampleAddressCredential":
"https://example.org/ExampleAddressCredential",

"Person": {
"@id": "http://schema.org/Person",
"@context": {
"@version": 1.1,
"@protected": true,

"address": "http://schema.org/address"
}
},
"PostalAddress": {
"@id": "http://schema.org/PostalAddress",
"@context": {
"@version": 1.1,
"@protected": true,

"streetAddress": "http://schema.org/streetAddress",
"addressLocality": "http://schema.org/addressLocality",
"addressRegion": "http://schema.org/addressRegion",
"postalCode": "http://schema.org/postalCode",
"addressCountry": "http://schema.org/addressCountry"
}
}
}

The above context defines a term for our new credential
type ExampleAddressCredential, mapping it to the URL
https://example.org/ExampleAddressCredential. We
could have also chosen a URI like
urn:private-example:ExampleAddressCredential, but
this approach would not allow us to serve up a Web page to
describe it, if we so desire. The context also defines the
terms for types Person and PostalAddress,
mapping them to their schema.org vocabulary URLs.
Furthermore, when those types are used, it also defines
protected terms for each of them via a scoped
context, mapping terms like address and
streetAddress to their schema.org vocabulary URLs.
For more information on how to write a JSON-LD context or
scoped contexts, see the [JSON-LD]
specification.

Select a publishing
location

Now that we have a [JSON-LD] context, we must give it a
URL. Technically speaking, we could just use a URI, for
example, a private URN such as
urn:private-example:my-extension. However, if we
want people to be able to read and discover it on the Web, we
should give it a URL like
https://example.org/example-address-credential-context/v1.

When this URL is dereferenced, it should return
application/ld+json by default, to allow JSON-LD
processors to process the context. However, if a user agent
requests HTML, it should return human readable text
that explains, to humans, what the term definitions are and
what they map to. Since we're reusing an existing vocabulary,
schema.org, we can also simply link to the definitions of the
meaning of our types and terms via their website. If we had
created our own new vocabulary terms, we would describe them
on our own site, ideally including machine readable
Information as well.

Use the new JSON-LD context when issuing new
credentials

Now we're ready for our context to be used by anyone who
wishes to issue an ExampleAddressCredential!

Example 10:
Example address credential with schema.org context

{

"@context": [
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
"https://example.org/example-address-credential-context/v1"
],
"id": "https://example.org/credentials/1234",
"type": "ExampleAddressCredential",
"issuer": "https://example.org/people#me",
"issuanceDate": "2017-12-05T14:27:42Z",
"credentialSubject": {
"id": "did:example:1234",
"type": "Person",
"address": {
"type": "PostalAddress",
"streetAddress": "123 Main St."
"addressLocality": "Blacksburg",
"addressRegion": "VA",
"postalCode": "24060",
"addressCountry": "US"
}
},
"proof": { ... }
}

Note that writing this new credential type requires
permission from no one, you must only adhere to the above
referenced standards.

9.2
Extending JWTs

The Verifiable Credentials
Data Model 1.0 specifies a minimal set of JWT
claim names that are to be used to represent the
properties of a verifiable credential
and its credentialSubject. Implementers may wish
to extend a verifiable credential
with some properties that are new (e.g.,
drivingLicenseNumber,
mySpecialProperty or that are already registered
with IANA as JWT claim names (e.g.,
given_name.
phone_number_verified.

As the Verifiable Credentials
Data Model 1.0 states, such extension properties
are best placed directly in either the JWT vc
claim or the credentialSubject
property of the vc claim as appropriate,
although they MAY be placed directly into their own JWT
claims.

If implementers wish to use JWT claim names for
these extensions, the following steps are recommended. Note
that there are three types of JWT claim name:
public, named with a URI; private, named with a local name;
and registered with IANA.

First, check with IANA
(https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt/jwt.xhtml) to see if
the JWT claim name already exists.

If it does not exist, the implementer may wish to
either give it a public name (i.e., a URI), give it a local
name (i.e., any string), or register it with IANA.

Once the JWT claim name exists, define
encoding/decoding transformation rules to convert the
verifiable credential property
or credentialSubject property into the JWT
claim.

Encoding: Remove the property from the
verifiable
credential, encode it according to the defined
rule, and place it in the JWT claim

Decoding: Remove the value from the JWT
claim, decode it according
to the defined rule, and place it in the new verifiable credential JSON
object, as either a property of the verifiable credential or the
credentialSubject, as appropriate.

9.3
Human Readability

The JSON-LD Context declaration mechanism is used by
implementations to signal the context in which the data
transmission is happening to consuming applications:

Example
11: Use of
@context mechanism

{

"@context": [
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/v1",
"https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/examples/v1"
],
"id": "http://example.edu/credentials/1872",
...

Extension authors are urged to publish two types of
information at the context URLs. The first type of
information is for machines, and is the machine-readable
JSON-LD Context. The second type of information is for
humans, and should be an HTML document. It is suggested that
the default mode of operation is to serve the
machine-readable JSON-LD Context as that is the primary
intended use of the URL. If content-negotiation is supported,
requests for text/html should result in a human
readable document. The human readable document should at
least contain usage information for the extension, such as
the expected order of URLs associated with the
@context property, specifications that elaborate
on the extension, and examples of typical usage of the
extension.

10. Proof
Formats
This section is
non-normative.

The verifiable credentials
data model
is designed to be proof format agnostic. The specification
does not normatively require any particular digital proof or
signature format. While the data model is the canonical
representation of a verifiable
credential or verifiable
presentation, the proving mechanisms for these are often
tied to the syntax used in the transmission of the document
between parties. As such, each proofing mechanism has to
specify whether the validation of the proof is calculated
against the state of the document as transmitted, against the
transformed data model, or against another form. At the time of
publication, at least two proof formats are being actively
utilized by implementers, and the Working Group felt that
documenting what these proof formats are and how they are being
used would be beneficial to other implementers.

This guide provides tables in section Benefits of JWTs and section Benefits of JSON-LD and LD-Proofs that compare
three syntax and proof format ecosystems; JSON+JWTs,
JSON-LD+JWTs, and JSON-LD+LD-Proofs.

Because the Verifiable Credentials Data Model is extensible,
and agnostic to any particular proof format, the specification
and use of additional proof formats is supported.

10.1
Benefits of JWTs

The Verifiable Credentials Data Model is designed to be
compatible with a variety of existing and emerging syntaxes
and digital proof formats. Each approach has benefits and
drawbacks. The following table is intended to summarize a
number of these native trade-offs.

The table below compares three syntax and proof format
ecosystems; JSON+JWTs, JSON-LD+JWTs, and
JSON-LD+LD-Proofs.

Feature

JSON

+

JWTs

JSON‑LD

+

JWTs

JSON‑LD

+

LD‑Proofs

PF1a. Proof format supports
Zero-Knowledge Proofs.

✓

✓

✓

PF2a. Proof format supports
arbitrary proofs such as Proof of Work, Timestamp
Proofs, and Proof of Stake.

✓

✓

✓

PF3a. Based on existing official
standards.

✓

✖

✖

PF4a. Designed to be small in
size.

✓

✖

✖

PF5a. Offline support without
further processing.

✓

✖

✖

PF6a. Wide adoption in other
existing standards.

✓

✓

✖

PF7a. No type ambiguity.

✓

✖

✖

PF8a. Broad library support.

✓

✖

✖

PF9a. Easy to understand what is
signed.

✓

✓

✖

PF10a. Ability to be used as
authn/authz token with existing systems.

✓

✓

✖

PF11a. No additional
canonicalization required.

✓

✖

✖

PF12a. No Internet PKI required.

✓

✖

✖

PF13a. No resolution of external
documents needed.

✓

✖

✖

Note

Some of the features listed in the table above
are debateable, since a feature can always be added to a
particular syntax or digital proof format. The table is
intended to identify native features of each combination
such that no additional language design or extension is
required to achieve the identified feature. Features that
all languages provide, such as the ability to express
numbers, have not been included for the purposes of
brevity. Find more information about different proof
formats in the next section.

PF1a: Proof format supports Zero-Knowledge
Proofs.

JWTs can embed proof attributes for
repudiable proofs such as Zero-Knowledge Proofs. In that
case, the JWS will not have an signature element.

PF2a: Proof format supports arbitrary proofs
such as Proof of Work, Timestamp Proofs, and Proof of
Stake.

JWTs can embed proof attributes for any
type of proofs such as Proof of Work, Timestamp, Proofs,
and Proof Stake.

PF3a: Based on existing official
standards.

JSON and JWT are proposed and mature IETF standards.
While JSON-LD 1.0 is in REC state in W3C, JSON-LD 1.1 is
still in WD state. LD-Proofs are not standardized at
all.

PF4a: Designed to be small in size.

JSON was invented as a simple data format to be
transmitted on the wire. A verifiable credential can be
expressed by its attributes only, without the necessity to
introduce additional meta-information such as @context.
This makes the resulting JSON+JWT credential typically also
smaller in size.

PF5a: Offline support without further
processing.

A JWT can fully describe itself without the need to
retrieve or verify any external documents. JSON-LD requires
the context to be queryable and requires further documents
to be accessible to check the prevalent document, e.g.,
LD-Proof. Additional caching needs to be implemented to
support offline use cases.

PF6a: Wide adoption in other existing
standards.

JWT founds its application in many other existing
standards, e.g., OAuth2, OpenID Connect. This allows for
backward compatibility with existing authentication and
authorization frameworks without or with only minor
modifications to these legacy systems.

PF7a: No type ambiguity.

It is best practice that JSON data structures typically
do not expect changing types of their internal attributes.
JSON-LD has implicit support for compact form serialization
which transforms arrays with a single element only to
switch its data type. Developers writing parsers have to
implement special handling of these data types, which
results in more code, is more error-prone and sometimes
does not allow parsers based on code generation, which rely
on static types.

PF8a: Broad library support.

JWT and JSON due to its maturity and standardization,
have a lot of open-source library support. While JSON-LD
1.0 is a standard and has support for different programming
languages, it is still behind JSON which is often part of
the native platform toolchain, e.g., JavaScript. For
LD-Proofs, on the other hand, only a few scattered
libraries exist.

PF9a: Easy to understand what is signed.

JWT makes it visible what is signed in contrast to
LD-Proofs, e.g., LD Signatures, that are detached from the
actual payload and contain links to external documents
which makes it not obvious for a developer to figure out
what is part of the signature.

PF10a: Ability to be used as authn/authz
token with existing systems.

Many existing applications rely on JWT for
authentication and authorization purposes. In theory,
developers maintaining these applications could leverage
JWT-based verifiable presentations in their current systems
with minor or no modifications. LD-Proofs represents a new
approach which would require more work to achieve the same
result.

PF11a: No additional canonicalization
required.

Beyond base64 URL encoding JSON and JWT don't require
any canonicalization to be transmitted on the wire. The JWS
can be calculated on any data inside of the payload. This
results in less computation, less complexity, and
light-weight libraries compared to JSON-LD and LD-Proofs
where canonicalization is required.

PF12a: No Internet PKI required.

JSON-LD and LD-Proofs rely on resolving external
documents, e.g., @context. This means that a
verifiable credential system would rely on existing
Internet PKI to a certain extend and cannot be fully
decentralized. A JWT-based system does not need to
introduce this dependency.

PF13a: No resolution of external documents
needed.

JSON-LD and LD-Proofs require the resolution of
external documents, which leads to an increased network
load for the verifier of a verifiable presentation. This
needs to be mitigated through caching strategies.

10.2 Benefits of JSON-LD and LD-Proofs

The Verifiable Credentials Data Model is designed to be
compatible with a variety of existing and emerging syntaxes
and digital proof formats. Each approach has benefits and
drawbacks. The following table is intended to summarize a
number of these native trade-offs.

The table below compares three syntax and proof format
ecosystems; JSON+JWTs, JSON-LD+JWTs, and JSON-LD+LD-Proofs.
Readers should be aware that Zero-Knowledge Proofs are
currently proposed as a sub-type of LD-Proofs and thus fall
into the final column below.

Feature

JSON

+

JWTs

JSON‑LD

+

JWTs

JSON‑LD

+

LD‑Proofs

PF1b. Support for open world data
modelling.

✖

✓

✓

PF2b. Universal identifier
mechanism for JSON objects via the use of URIs.

✖

✓

✓

PF3b. A way to disambiguate
properties shared among different JSON documents by
mapping them to IRIs via a context.

✖

✓

✓

PF4b. A mechanism to refer to
data in an external document, where the data may be
merged with the local document without a merge
conflict in semantics or structure.

✖

✓

✓

PF5b. The ability to annotate
strings with their language.

✖

✓

✓

PF6b. A way to associate
arbitrary datatypes, such as dates and times, with
arbitrary property values.

✖

✓

✓

PF7b. A facility to express one
or more directed graphs, such as a social network, in
a single document.

✖

✓

✓

PF8b. Supports signature sets.

✖

✖

✓

PF9b. Embeddable in HTML such
that search crawlers will index the machine-readable
content.

✖

✖

✓

PF10b. Data on the wire is easy
to debug and serialize to database systems.

✖

✖

✓

PF11b. Nesting signed data does
not cause data size to double for every embedding.

✖

✖

✓

PF12b. Proof format supports
Zero-Knowledge Proofs.

✖

✖

✓

PF13b. Proof format supports
arbitrary proofs such as Proof of Work, Timestamp
Proofs, and Proof of Stake.

✖

✖

✓

PF14b. Proofs can be expressed
unmodified in other data syntaxes such as YAML,
N-Quads, and CBOR.

✖

✖

✓

PF15b. Changing property-value
ordering, or introducing whitespace does not
invalidate signature.

✖

✖

✓

PF16b. Designed to easily
support experimental signature systems.

✖

✖

✓

PF17b. Supports signature
chaining.

✖

✖

✓

PF18b. Does not require
pre-processing or post-processing.

✖

✖

✓

PF19b. Canonicalization requires
only base-64 encoding.

✖

✖

✓

Note

Some of the features listed in the table above
are debateable, since a feature can always be added to a
particular syntax or digital proof format. The table is
intended to identify native features of each combination
such that no additional language design or extension is
required to achieve the identified feature. Features that
all languages provide, such as the ability to express
numbers, have not been included for the purposes of
brevity.

PF1b: Support for open world data
modelling

An open world data model is one where any
entity can make any statement about anything while
simultaneously ensuring that the semantics of the statement
are unambiguous. This specification is enabled by an open
world data model called Linked Data. One defining
characteristic of supporting an open world data model is
the ability to specify the semantic context in which data
is being expressed. JSON-LD provides this mechanism via the
@context property. JSON has no such
feature.

PF2b: Universal identifier mechanism for JSON
objects via the use of URIs.

All entities in a JSON-LD document are identified
either via an automatic URI, or via an explicit URI. This
enables all entities in a document to be unambiguously
referenced. JSON does not have a native URI type nor does
it require objects to have one, making it difficult to
impossible to unambiguously identify an entity expressed in
JSON.

PF3b: A way to disambiguate properties shared
among different JSON documents by mapping them to IRIs via
a context.

All object properties in a JSON-LD document, such as
the property "homepage", are either keywords or they are
mapped to an IRI. This feature enables open world systems
to identify the semantic meaning of the property in an
unambiguous way, which enables seamless merging of data
between disparate systems. JSON object properties are not
mapped to IRIs, which result in ambiguities with respect to
the semantic meaning of the property. For example, one JSON
document might use "title" (meaning "book title") in a way
that is semantically incompatible with another JSON
document using "title" (meaning "job title").

PF4b: A mechanism to refer to data in an
external document, where the data may be merged with the
local document without a merge conflict in semantics or
structure.

JSON-LD provides a mechanism that enables a data value
to use a URL to refer to data outside of the local
document. This external data may then be automatically
merged with the local document without a merge conflict in
semantics or structure. This feature enables a system to
apply the "follow your nose" principle to discover a richer
set of data that is associated with the local document.
While a JSON document can contain pointers to external
data, interpreting the pointer is often application
specific and usually does not support merging the external
data to construct a richer data set.

PF5b: The ability to annotate strings with
their language.

JSON-LD enables a developer to specify the language,
such as English, French, or Japanese, in which a text
string is expressed via the use of language tags. JSON does
not provide such a feature.

PF6b: A way to associate arbitrary datatypes,
such as dates and times, with arbitrary property
values.

JSON-LD enables a developer to specify the data type of
a property value, such as Date, unsigned integer, or
Temperature by specifying it in the JSON-LD Context. JSON
does not provide such a feature.

PF7b: A facility to express one or more
directed graphs, such as a social network, in a single
document.

JSON-LD's abstract data model supports the expression
of information as a directed graph of labeled nodes and
edges, which enables an open world data model to be
supported. JSON's abstract data model only supports the
expression of information as a tree of unlabeled nodes and
edges, which restricts the types of relationships and
structures that can be natively expressed in the
language.

PF8b: Supports signature sets.

A signature set is an unordered set of signatures over
a data payload. Use cases, such as cryptographic signatures
applied to a legal contract, typically require more than
one signature to be associated with the contract in order
to legally bind two or more parties under the terms of the
contract. Linked Data Proofs, including Linked Data
Signatures, natively support sets of signatures. JWTs only
enable a single signature over a single payload.

PF9b: Embeddable in HTML such that search
crawlers will index the machine-readable content.

All major search crawlers natively parse and index
information expressed as JSON-LD in HTML pages. LD-Proofs
enable the current data format that search engines use to
be extended to support digital signatures. JWTs have no
mechanism to express data in HTML pages and are currently
not indexed by search crawlers.

PF10b: Data on the wire is easy to debug and
serialize to database systems.

When developers are debugging software systems, it is
beneficial for them to be able to see the data that they
are operating on using common debugging tools. Similarly,
it is useful to be able to serialize data from the network
to a database and then from the database back out to the
network using a minimal number of pre and post processing
steps. LD-Proofs enable developers to use common JSON
tooling without having to convert the format into a
different format or structure. JWTs base-64 encode payload
information, resulting in complicated pre and post
processing steps to convert the data into JSON data while
not destroying the digital signature. Similarly,
schema-less databases, which are typically used to index
JSON data, cannot index information that is expressed in an
opaque base-64 encoded wrapper.

PF11b: Nesting signed data does not cause
data size to double for every embedding.

When a JWT is encapsulated by another JWT, the entire
payload must be base-64 encoded in the initial JWT, and
then base-64 encoded again in the encapsulating JWT. This
is often necessary when a cryptographic signature is
required on a document that contains a cryptographic
signature, such as when a Notary signs a document that has
been signed by someone else seeking the Notary's services.
LD-Proofs do not require base-64 encoding the signed
portion of a document and instead rely on a
canonicalization process that is just as secure, and that
only requires the cryptographic signature to be encoded
instead of the entire payload.

PF12b: Proof format supports Zero-Knowledge
Proofs.

The LD-Proof format is capable of modifying the
algorithm that generates the hash or hashes that are
cryptographically signed. This cryptographic agility
enables digital signature systems, such as Zero-Knowledge
Proofs, to be layered on top of LD-Proofs instead of an
entirely new digital signature container format to be
created. JWTs are designed such that an entirely new
digital signature container format will be required to
support Zero-Knowledge Proofs.

PF13b: Proof format supports arbitrary
proofs such as Proof of Work, Timestamp Proofs, and Proof
of Stake.

The LD-Proof format was designed with a broader range of
proof types in mind and supports cryptographic proofs
beyond simple cryptographic signatures. These proof types
are in common usage in systems such as decentralized
ledgers and provide additional guarantees to verifiable credentials, such as
the ability to prove that a particular claim was made at
a particular time or that a certain amount of energy was
expended to generate a particular credential. The JWT
format does not support arbitrary proof formats.

PF14b: Proofs can be expressed unmodified in
other data syntaxes such as XML, YAML, N-Quads, and
CBOR.

The LD-Proof format utilizes a canonicalization
algorithm to generate a cryptographic hash that is used as
an input to the cryptographic proof algorithm. This enables
the bytes generated as the cryptographic proof to be
compact and expressible in a variety of other syntaxes such
as XML, YAML, N-Quads, and CBOR. Since JWTs require the use
of JSON to be generated, they are inextricably tied to the
JSON syntax.

PF15b: Changing property-value ordering, or
introducing whitespace does not invalidate signature.

Since LD-Proofs utilize a canonicalization algorithm,
the introduction of whitespace that does not change the
meaning of the information being expressed has no effect on
the final cryptographic hash over the information. This
means that simple changes in whitespace formatting, such as
those changes made when writing data to a schema-less
database and then retrieving the same information from the
same database do not cause the digital signature to fail.
JWTs encode the payload using the base-64 format which is
not resistant to whitespace formatting that has no effect
on the information expressed. This shortcoming of JWTs make
it challenging to, for example, express signed data in web
pages that search crawlers index.

PF16b: Designed to easily support
experimental signature systems.

The LD-Proof format is naturally extensible, not
requiring the format to be extended in a formal
international standards working group in order to prevent
namespace collisions. The JWT format requires entries in a
centralized registry in order to avoid naming collisions
and does not support experimentation as easily as the
LD-Proof format does. LD-Proof format extension is done
through the decentralized publication of cryptographic
suites that are guaranteed to not conflict with other
LD-Proof extensions. This approach enables developers to
easily experiment with new cryptographic signature
mechanisms that support selective disclosure,
zero-knowledge proofs, and post-quantum algorithms.

PF17b: Supports signature chaining.

A signature chain is an ordered set of signatures over
a data payload. Use cases, such as cryptographic signatures
applied to a notarized document, typically require a
signature by the signing party and then an additional one
by a notary to be made after the original signing party has
made their signature. Linked Data Proofs, including Linked
Data Signatures, natively support chains of signatures.
JWTs only enable a single signature over a single
payload.

PF18b: Does not require pre-processing or
post-processing.

In order to encode a verifiable credential or a
verifiable
presentation in a JWT, an extra set of steps are
required to convert the data to and from the JWT format.
No such extra converstion step are required for verifiable credentials and
verifiable
presentations protected by LD-Proofs.

PF19b: Canonicalization requires only
base-64 encoding.

The JWT format utilizes a simple base-64 encoding
format to generate the cryptographic hash of the data. The
encoding format for LD-Proofs requires a more complex
canonicalization algorithm to generate the cryptographic
hash. The benefits of the JWT approach are simplicity at
the cost of encoding flexibility. The benefits of the
LD-Proof approach are flexibility at the cost of
implementation complexity.

11.
Zero-Knowledge Proofs
This section is
non-normative

The Verifiable Credentials Data Model is designed to be
compatible with a variety of existing and emerging digital
proof formats. Each proof format has benefits and drawbacks.
Many proof formats cannot selectively reveal attribute values
from a verifiable credential; they can only reveal all (or
none).

Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs) are a proof format that enables
data-minimization features in verifiable presentations, such as
selective disclosure and predicate proofs.

Full Disclosure

Currently, disclosing data is an all or nothing process,
whether online or off. Many digital identity systems reveal all
the attributes in a digital credential. The simplest method for
signing a verifiable credential
signs the entire credential and when presented, fully discloses
all the attributes.

Along with a full disclosure of all the attributes in a
verifiable credential, standard
verifiable presentations reveal the
actual signature. With both the data and signature in hand, a
verifier has a complete copy of the credential.
Without care, this could enable the verifier to
impersonate the holder. Also, since the signature is
the same every time this credential is presented, the signature
itself is a unique identifier and becomes PII (personally
identifiable information).

It is also possible to fully disclose the attributes in a
zero-knowledge verifiable credential.
Unlike non-ZKP methods, zero-knowledge methods do not reveal
the actual signature; instead, they only reveal a cryptographic
proof of a valid signature. Only the holder of the
signature has the information needed to present the credential to a verifier. This means
that zero-knowledge methods provide a holder additional
protection from impersonation. Because the signature is not
revealed, it also cannot be used as a unique identifier.

Selective Disclosure

Selective disclosure means that a holder doesn't
have to reveal all of the attributes contained in a verifiable credential. This reduces
the liability of handling or holding data that it is not
necessary to share or collect.

Non-ZKP methods for selective disclosure often require the
credential issuer to create a unique credential for
each individual attribute, or possible combination of
attributes. This could quickly become impractical as the number
of credentials or combinations thereof
exponentially explodes. Atomic credentials (which only
contain a single attribute) may also not guarantee that the
data is properly paired when used in a verifiable presentation. For example,
a holder has two vehicle credentials, one for a 2018
Mazda with 15,000 miles and the other for a 1965 Lincoln with
350,000 miles. With atomic credentials it may be possible to
claim the user has a 1965 Lincoln with 15,000 miles.

Zero-knowledge methods allow a holder to choose which
attributes to reveal and which attributes to withhold on a
case-by-case basis without involving the issuer. The
credential issuer only needs to provide a single
verifiable credential that contains
all of the attributes. Each attribute is individually
incorporated into the signature. This enables two options: to
reveal the attribute or to prove that you know the value of the
attribute without revealing it. For example, a credential with
attributes for name, birthdate, and address can be used in a
presentation to reveal only your name.

Non-ZKP methods implementing selective disclosure often
requires the cooperation of the issuer. Selective
disclosure using zero-knowledge methods gives the holder personal control over what to reveal. A
verifiable presentation based on
zero-knowledge proof mechanisms only contains those attributes
and associated values that are required to satisfy the
presentation requirements.

Predicate Proofs

A predicate proof is a proof that answers a true-or-false
question. For example, "Are you over the age of 18?" Using
non-ZKP methods, predicate proofs must be provided by the
issuer as one of the attributes of a verifiable credential. This means that
in order for a non-ZKP credential to be used to
prove age-over-18, it would need to contain the attribute
age-over-18. This credential could not be used to reveal
your birthdate, unless it also included a birthdate claim. It also couldn't be used to prove age-over-25.
To prove age-over-25, the holder would need to
have received a credential with an age-over-25
claim.

Using zero-knowledge methods, predicate proofs can be
generated by the holder at the time of presentation without issuer involvement. For
example, a verifiable credential
with the claim birthdate can be used in a
verifiable presentation to prove
age-over-18. The same credential could then be
used in another presentation to prove
age-over-25, all without revealing the holder's
birthdate.

Revocation

Verifiable credentials may need to be
revocable. If an issuer can revoke a credential, verifiers must be able
to determine a credential's revocation status.

Non-ZKP methods for checking revocation status may require
the verifier to directly contact the issuer. Less restrictive checks could be made against
a list of revoked credential identifiers posted in a public
registry. The holder is required to disclose the
credential identifier to the verifier so that
it can be checked. The verifier is then
responsible for doing the work to check revocation.

Using zero-knowledge methods, the credential
identifier can be checked against a list of revoked credential
identifiers without revealing the identifier. This reduces the
ability of network monitors to correlate a holder's credential presentations, and removes the
ability of an issuer to be made aware of the
presentation of verifiable credentials
they have issued.

Correlation

Correlation is the ability to link data from multiple
interactions to a single user. Correlation can be performed by
a verifier, by issuers and verifiers working together, or by a third party
observing interactions on the network. Correlation is a way to
collect data about a holder without the holder's consent or knowledge. It is also a way to
deanonymize private transactions. For example, a holder might use a verifiable credential to prove they
are authorized to vote, then submit a secret ballot. If it is
possible to correlate the holder's credential with the secret ballot, thereby linking a
specific vote to a specific voter, it would be detrimental to
the democratic process and could enable retaliation.

One way to reduce correlation is through data minimization,
by sharing only the information required to complete a
transaction. Another way to reduce correlation is to make each
interaction look unique. When interactions disclose unique
identifiers, an observer can link multiple interactions to a
single user. Non-ZKP methods with only a single identifier per
user create correlation opportunities by embedding that
identifier in multiple credentials or interactions.
Zero-knowledge proofs remove this linkability between
interactions.

Non-ZKP methods that reveal all attributes and use unique
identifiers are completely correlatable. Zero-knowledge methods
enable data minimization and allow holders to have
trusted interactions with verifiers without
dependence on unique identifiers.

Although correlation can never be eliminated completely, the
goal of zero-knowledge methods is to reduce the probability of
correlation and to put control over the level of correlation
into the hands of the verifiable
credential holder.

Drawbacks

Zero-knowledge methods are more complex than non-ZKP
methods. Cryptographic engineers must understand complicated
protocols and write code to create libraries that support
zero-knowledge methods. System implementers can then use these
libraries without being exposed to the underlying complexity,
but must trust that the implementation was done correctly. They
can utilize the features of selective disclosure and bring the
benefits of the method to their customers without a significant
increase in effort over using non-ZKP methods.

Due to the underlying complexity, zero-knowledge methods
require more CPU and memory to use. This also adds to the time
required to create and verify proofs. This should be considered
when using less capable devices such as IOT devices or older
phones.

Another drawback of zero-knowledge proofs is that they tend
to be larger than simple signatures.

There is a perception that zero-knowledge methods are new
and untested. Zero-knowledge methods were first introduced in
1989 as a way to guard secrets. Although they may not be well
understood by the general public, they have received
considerable review and scrutiny in the cryptographic
community. They are considered just as secure as many common
cryptographic techniques in use today.

12.
Progressive Trust
This section is
non-normative.

Entities that use verifiable
credentials and verifiable
presentations should follow protocols that enable
progressive trust. Progressive trust refers to enabling
individuals to share information about themselves only on an as
needed basis, slowing building up more trust as more
information is shared with another party.

Progressive trust is strongly related to the principle of
data minimization, and enabled by technologies such as
selective disclosure and predicate proofs. We encourage the use
of progressive trust as a guiding principle for implementers as
they develop protocols for issuers, holders, and verifiers.

12.1 Data Minimization

Data minimization is a principle that encourages verifiers to request the minimum amount of data
necessary from holders, and for holders to only provide the minimum amount of data
to verifiers. This "minimum amount of
data" depends on the situation and may change over the course
of a holder's interaction with a verifier.

For example, a holder may apply for a loan, with a
bank acting as the verifier. There are
several points at which the bank may want to determine
whether the holder is qualified to continue in
the process of applying for the loan; for instance, the bank
may have a policy of only providing loans to existing account
holders. A protocol that follows the principle of data
minimization would allow the holder to reveal to
the verifier only that they are an
existing account holder, before the bank requests any
additional information, such as account balances or
employment status. In this way, the applicant may
progressively entrust the bank with more information, as the
data needed by the bank to make its determinations is
requested a piece at a time, as needed, rather than as a
complete set, up front.

12.2 Selective Disclosure

Selective disclosure is the ability of a holder to select some elements of a verifiable credential to share with
a verifier, without revealing the rest. There are
several different methods which support selective disclosure,
we provide three examples:

Atomic Credentials - These are verifiable credentials which
consist of a single claim. An issuer may
provide a set of atomic credentials that duplicates the
claims of a standard credential. This atomicity allows a
holder to disclose only those
claims which need to be revealed to a verifier, rather than requiring all of the
claims of a standard credential to be revealed.

Selective Disclosure Signatures - Certain
signature schemes natively support selective disclosure
of verifiable
credential claims. One example of these is
Camenisch-Lysyanskaya signatures. Such Signatures
allow a holder to disclose only those
claims which need to be revealed to a verifier, rather than requiring all of the
credential's claims to be revealed.

Hashed Values - With this method, the issuer issues a single verifiable credential containing
all the issuer's claims about
the subject. However, each claim value is
created by hashing the actual value with a different
nonce so that the verifier cannot
determine the actual value. There are several different
ways of modeling this, and no standard way is currently
defined. The holder includes the actual
values of the claims that are to be revealed
to the verifier in the verifiable presentation.

12.3
Predicates

Another technique which may be used to support progressive
trust is to use predicates as the values of revealed claims.
Predicates allow a holder to provide True/False values
to a verifier rather than revealing claim
values.

Predicate proofs may be enabled by verifiable credential issuers as claims, e.g., the
credentialSubject may include an
ageOver18 property rather than a
birthdate property. This would allow holders to provide proof that they are over 18
without revealing their birthdates.

Certain signature types enable predicate proofs by
allowing claims from a standard verifiable credential to be
presented as predicates. For example, a
Camenisch-Lysyanskaya signed verifiable credential that contains
a credentialSubject with a
birthdate property may be included in a verifiable presentation as a derived
credential that contains an ageOver18
property.

12.4 Further Techniques

The examples provided in this section are intended to
illustrate some possible mechanisms for supporting
progressive trust, not provide an exhaustive or comprehensive
list of all the ways progressive trust may be supported.
Research in this area continues with the use of cutting-edge
proof techniques such as zk-SNARKS and
Bulletproofs,
as well as different signature protocols.

A draft report by the Credentials
Community Group on data
minimization may also be useful reading for implementers
looking to enable progressive trust.

13. Related Specifications

13.1 Web Authentication

The W3C
Web
Authentication specification extends the capabilities of
in-browser web applications by enabling them to strongly
authenticate users with the aid of scoped public key-based
credentials. It defines the idea of authenticators,
which are cryptographic entities that can generate and store
public key credentials at the behest of a Relying Party,
subject to user consent, mediated by the web browser to
preserve user privacy.

Since the key based credentials created by Web Authentication Level
1 authenticators are narrowly scoped to a particular
Relying Party origin, they are unsuited (in their current
form) to general purpose signature and verification
operations. However, many web developers working with
Verifiable Credentials have
expressed interest in leveraging the Web Authentication API,
since it provides a secure browser-mediated interface to
crucial key management infrastructure.

The Web Authentication Working Group has agreed to address
this use case in the WebAuthn Level 2 specification, and is
currently working to enable the kind of cross-origin
usage that would allow the WebAuthn API to be used for
verifiable presentations. For
example, verifiable credential wallets could allow
authentication based on verifiable presentations, by using
WebAuthn authenticators to sign those presentations with
challenges from verifier websites.

14. Test
suite
This section is non-normative.

The W3C
Verifiable Claims Working Group has produced a test suite in order
for implementers to confirm their conformance with the current
specifications.

You can review the current
implementation report, which contains conformance testing
results for submitted implementations supporting the Verifiable
Credentials Data Model specification.

A.
References

A.1 Informative references

[RFC3986]

Uniform
Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax. T.
Berners-Lee; R. Fielding; L. Masinter. IETF. January
2005. Internet Standard. URL: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3986

[vc-data-model]

Verifiable
Credentials Data Model 1.0. Manu Sporny; Grant
Noble; Dave Longley; Daniel Burnett; Brent Zundel. W3C. 5
September 2019. W3C Proposed Recommendation. URL:
https://www.w3.org/TR/vc-data-model/

↑

